♪ MTV ♪
- You're late.
- Storm caught us.
There is a way
to get you better.
Doc has to drill a hole.
relieve the pressure.
You regard me with
no decency or compassion.
If you wish to deny me entry.
deny it.
♪ dramatic music ♪
Welcome to America.
- Destination.
- Bozeman. ultimately.
Montana?
Put that somewhere different
now. Every pickpocket
in the terminal
just saw your hiding place.
Nowhere in
our vows did it say
to live in this
frozen hell.
If you want
to be my husband.
be him in Boston.
This is my home.
You got two choices.
Walk with me to a train station
or take your chances
with this truck.
They're my family.
Look what you do
for your family.
It's a rich man's world now.
The one thing you cannot
buy in a store
is the euphoria of peril.
I can sell that for a fortune.
But that?
That's just the beginning.
America is awash with wealth.
As people flee the tedium
of the countryside
for the opportunities
of the city.
their pockets fill
and their station
in society rises.
Modern conveniences
have eliminated
the monotony of daily life.
No more cutting wood for heat.
No more a servant
to fields and livestock.
If you wish heat.
you turn on the boiler.
If you wish water.
you turn a faucet.
Americans no longer rely
upon their hands for money.
They use their minds.
their imaginations.
and they are getting rich
from it.
But...
what are they going to do
with their new money
and all their free time?
What do they do in Europe?
♪ ominous music ♪
Hm?
***
They travel.
Travel? Where?
Wherever they can experience
a world opposite of their own.
Montana is the opposite
of their convenient lives
and their concrete world.
It is wild.
It is untamed.
Uh. silver has made me rich.
but mines run dry.
prices fluctuate.
Selling an experience
is an infinite resource
that costs nothing to create
because it already exists.
Your invitation offered
an investment opportunity.
I see the opportunity.
but not the investment.
The investment
is in bringing them
and entertaining them
once they arrive.
There are three phases which
must begin at the same time.
Phase one.
Last spring.
the first
transcontinental flight
left Long Island and arrived
27 hours later in San Diego.
A century ago.
that journey took a year.
Flights from New York
could reach Bozeman
in under 12 hours.
and from Chicago
in under eight.
Second...
We push the state for funding
to pave the road
through Paradise Valley.
making automobiles
a viable means
of transport to the park.
And this...
...keeps them coming year round.
What is it?
It is a winter park resort
where one may ice skate.
toboggan
and ski.
Who wants to suffer
through the hell of winter
only to vacation in the snow?
Ever vacationed
at a beach. Alan?
Of course.
Why?
Why travel all that way?
Our lakes have beaches.
Our rivers have shores.
It's not the same.
Not the same?
How?
I can't explain it.
When you see it. you understand.
Huh.
How much will this
new infrastructure cost
and what type of investment
are you seeking?
The state will pay
for the infrastructure
once we convince them
of the tax revenue
Montana stands to gain.
Our investment
will be the resort community.
I'm offering
100.000 per.
I'll take five.
- I'll take five.
- I'll take four.
Four.
That resort sits in the middle
of Yellowstone.
That's Jake Dutton's land.
Time to build that army
you promised me.
Fifteen minute call
for the 10:55 to Boston.
♪ sinister music ♪
Where is it?
Where's the fucking money?
No.
And to think.
we could've had some fun.
You're too skinny.
You're too much trouble
to break.
♪ tense music ♪
***
What time is it?
What time?!
11:02.
Last call to Boston.
All aboard!
Wait!
I have a ticket!
Sorry. miss.
There's no way to stop her now.
Are you off your rocker. lady?
Never seen anyone so desperate
to reach Billings.
Your quarters
are three cars back.
***
Thought I had it to myself.
You have it with me.
Get down.
Why the fat lip?
I was robbed.
What did he take?
He took everything.
♪ majestic orchestral music ♪
***
♪ pastoral music ♪
Spring teases the senses
with warm mornings
and green buds of new grass
and the hope of summer's bounty.
Then blankets that hope in snow.
It will continue this cycle.
testing the will
of both animal and man.
Hunting out the weak.
Ridding the world of them.
lest they find
the strength and summon
to survive another season
and pass their weakness on
to the next generation.
He said six inches apart.
That's right.
Six inches.
What is that?
You don't want to know.
I think it's best
if your wife wait outside.
No. I want to be with him.
I'm sure you do.
It's all right. Wait outside.
♪ somber music ♪
How long does this take?
Don't know.
Never done it.
Oh. that's encouraging.
Alice.
Come with me.
Let's put on the straps.
Nice and tight.
This strap should be
just above his eyebrows.
Now. it is imperative
that you not move.
I will sedate
you with chloroform.
How long that lasts
is different with everyone.
Breathe in deep.
Exhale deep.
Breathe in again.
He's out.
Let's push down
- and toward him.
- Okay.
His head
must remain perfectly still.
♪ suspenseful music ♪
***
You all right?
Here we go.
I think we should
move to California.
I hear there are no laws
against our marriage there.
You heard wrong.
There is no haven from bigotry.
I'm afraid.
What happened to you
is more than that.
They hurt you to hurt us.
To attack us.
And I'm sure sorry they did.
Why would they do it
to hurt you?
Greed.
Which is the engine of bigotry
in the first place.
Greed for what?
The land.
The land beneath your feet.
The land beneath mine.
What are the chances
he wakes up during this?
Well. there's no way to measure.
How much chloroform
did he inhale.
what his body's reaction
- is to it.
- Yeah.
Do his pain centers
override the s--
Hey! Get him!
Zane. hang in-- Hold him!
- Look at me. Zane.
- Hold him.
You're all right. man.
Hold still. Hold still.
Doing good.
Are we almost done?
The worst is behind us.
Now you'll need
to loosen that strap
and turn his head
- slightly to the left.
- Okay.
Just a touch.
Let's see.
Get all this...
...into...
There we go.
All right.
I'm sorry. Zane.
Should begin feeling...
it releases
some of that pressure.
I feel it.
Okay.
All right.
Bandage and gauze.
Go on and wrap it
around this way.
There you go.
Give me some more.
feed some more...
There it is.
All right.
Moment of truth.
Let's take the straps off.
Try and sit up.
All right.
Does it hurt?
Hell yeah. it hurts.
He just drilled
a fucking hole in my head.
S-Sorry.
I think he means
does it hurt as bad
as it did before?
No.
Not like before.
I ain't dizzy.
It ain't crushing me.
I thought I'd never walk again.
Thank you.
Can he stand up?
Well. he can try.
But take it real slow
for a few days.
It's been a while
since those muscles
have been used.
Wait...
Oh. e-easy there. boss.
- I got it.
- Easy.
I got it.
Go slow.
Are we going after 'em?
For what they done to us?
Yeah.
For what they done to all of us.
I want to see my wife.
Come on. I'll give
you a hand with the stairs.
I got to tell you. Doc.
I didn't have a lot of faith
in that working.
Neither did I.
I ain't ever playing poker
with you.
Zane's up and walking.
Believe that?
No. he drilled a dang hole
in his head.
Now he's walking.
Is it time for my shot?
Not yet.
Then leave.
Please.
Sweetheart...
I'm no such thing.
Not to you.
Not anymore.
Leave.
Alice.
Thought I'd lost you.
I thought I'd lost me. too.
Well. that's one calamity down.
Ah.
And here comes another one.
This is a hard winter
to be a girl's first.
Yeah.
She wants to go home.
Did you talk to her?
Tried.
Let me try.
Can't make it any worse.
Mm.
I stand corrected.
If anyone can make it worse.
it would be you.
That's why we've
lasted so long. honey.
Your unwavering belief in me.
Go away.
Rather not.
Suit yourself.
♪ contemplative music ♪
***
When are you leaving?
Eight days.
Ah.
Winters are hard here.
No matter the year.
This year's...
...been hard to live through.
For any number of reasons.
I'm out of reasons to stay.
Husband's a reason.
I gave him a choice.
He didn't choose me.
He chose this place.
That isn't a choice.
Not right now.
Not the way he sees it.
This ranch is under attack.
Our whole way of life
is under attack.
In his heart.
he believes you're asking him
to abandon that fight.
abandon his family.
Whether it's true or not.
that's what he believes.
You've sacrificed
a lot to be here. We all have.
And you got as big a stake
as anybody in this fight.
But being part of this family
doesn't mean
you have to deny your own.
If you want out of the snow
for a little while. I...
...I don't blame you.
Hell. I'd like to jump
on that train to Boston with you
and not come back till June.
I sure hope you'll come back.
But not like that boy does.
Sun don't rise
in the east with him.
Rises with you.
I'm sorry. darling.
Let me see it.
I'll do it myself.
Mr. Dutton?
Yeah?
Thank you for understanding.
Thank you for listening.
♪ dramatic music ♪
***
It's not right.
It shouldn't hurt that much.
I'll be right back.
Doctor?
Would you have a moment
to see Elizabeth?
Is something wrong?
Darling.
Are you all right?
I'm better than all right.
So. Doctor?
It appears the good Lord
has two miracles
for this family today.
Well. what's the second?
She's pregnant.
Wh... But i-i--
is it all right?
With-with the vaccine--
There is no danger
of the vaccine
interfering with the pregnancy.
It can. however.
make the mother quite nauseous
and cause cramps.
sometimes quite severe. as it is
- in her case.
- Yes. but Doctor.
can she keep this one?
One can hope.
And a prayer or two
wouldn't hurt.
I'll be on my knees.
Pregnant.
Ah.
It's been far too long
since we've had good news
in this house. Doctor.
Far too long.
Oh...
What?
Come here.
See?
All she needed was a little
wisdom and understanding.
and they're back
to being puppies.
Yes. you.
Oh. you certainly
saved the day. didn't you?
- Well. it appears so.
- Mm.
Well. I'll go on
to let you think that.
For a little while. anyway.
Don't be jealous. honey.
Turns out
I know more about women
than you give me credit for.
Jacob--
and I say this from
a place of deep affection--
it is your complete ignorance
on the mind of a woman
that is the cornerstone
of our marriage.
Without it. I would
have left you decades ago.
I have n-no idea
what the hell
you're talking about.
That's what I mean.
She's gonna have a baby!
What'd he say?
Mm-hmm.
Lunch will be ready in an hour.
You hear what I said?
Yeah. I heard what you said!
Great!
Great.
Are you looking for work?
- No. sir.
- Car break down?
- Don't have a car.
- Where you headed?
Train station.
You're a ways
from a train station. son.
Where you coming from?
♪ uneasy music ♪
***
Is there a law against walking?
There's a law against vagrancy.
You got any ID?
Boy. you've been all over.
- Soldier?
- At one time.
- What's in the case?
- Rifle.
I was a tracker for
the Commonwealth in Africa.
And now you're walking
the roads of Texas.
- Going home.
- Well. last I checked.
there's no way
to walk here from Africa.
Worked a merchant ship
that took me to Galveston.
Hitched my way here.
Hmm.
Put your things inside.
I'll give you a ride.
Son. it's not a request.
Vagrancy's a crime
in this county.
I can take you to jail
or I can take you
to the rail station
in Fort Worth.
Hop in the back. there.
- Where's home?
- Montana.
Mm.
Work the mines there. do you?
I ran cattle.
Rancher.
That's a rough business.
Yeah. what isn't?
That prohibition causing
problems up north?
Wouldn't know.
Weren't any prohibition
when I left.
Wasn't any paved roads
with power lines
running beside 'em.
There was none
of what I'm seeing.
Place I left ain't
the place I'm going back to.
Causing problems here.
everywhere you turn.
Hell. we had a shootout
in the middle
of the county road yesterday.
Middle of the damn road.
♪ tense music ♪
***
You were right to get out
of that truck. son.
Question I got for you
is why'd you get in?
Only opens from the outside.
You know. that Italian boy
sure was a talker.
Ain't talking anymore. though.
I've met plenty of bootleggers.
You don't fit the bill.
but... here you are. bootlegging.
Wasn't my booze
and it ain't my truck.
Didn't have much choice
in the matter.
Life's a series of choices.
nothing else.
Dying didn't seem like
much of a choice.
Well. I'm gonna
give you another choice.
You spend the next five years
in prison
or you deliver this whisky.
Deliver it?
Mm-hmm.
And you're free to go.
Well. why would you want me
to do that?
'Cause we're gonna go with you.
What's it gonna be?
Let's get it over with.
I need my things.
Your things'll be fine
right here.
Here's the wrong direction.
Give me my things
or take me to jail.
Keep these close.
Temperance Society
caught 'em a prostitute.
This is the place.
♪ suspenseful music ♪
***
You are Spencer?
Who's this guy?
Sent him with us.
Where's Lucca?
Back in Waco.
Why is he in Waco?
'Cause that's where I shot him.
Don't go nowhere.
***
Where's this train headed?
All the way to the ocean.
Where you headed?
Ain't going that far.
You got to pay the tax.
What tax is that?
The train tax.
You got any food?
No food.
You got any money?
No money.
Maybe we work it out in trade.
That how you paid it?
Sometimes you give.
sometimes you get.
♪ ominous music ♪
***
Everybody's got to pay.
Even you?
Not me.
What makes you so special?
I'm the tax collector.
Okay.
How's half an ounce
of lead sound?
Trains have a way
of rattling a man to sleep.
Like a big steel crib.
Swaying to and fro.
I've never seen a man
that can resist it.
You said a couple of days.
I was wrong.
I'll say.
You sick of being poor?
Never known anything else.
Never known
a hotel room like this.
What if I told you
our boy could go to university?
Any one he wants.
And when he graduates.
he could run the empire
I build for him.
And you--
you would never
have to garden again.
Or wash your laundry
in a bucket.
You wouldn't need to cook.
You could be cooked for.
And your grandchildren
could play in the snow.
not work in it.
not freeze themselves
to sleep at night.
What if I could
give you all that?
Can you?
I can.
I am.
♪ quiet music ♪
But...
to give you all that.
someone else must lose it.
Another family must go without.
I must take it.
That's the only way
people get wealthy. Banner.
They take it.
Look at where we come from.
Look at the castles built
on the backs of our parents.
If you said
that could be our castle
but you must throw
the prince from the wall...
...I say...
...throw him from high enough
that he don't
try to steal it back.
All right.
I'll steal you a castle.
I have 35 men who are willing.
And I haven't
spoken to the miners yet.
just the sheepers.
They'll be wanting to graze
the summers there in exchange.
I couldn't care less
what or where they graze.
How do you want me to do it?
You've already done it once.
You just weren't successful.
Now. ask yourself this.
Why weren't you successful?
That was different.
That was revenge.
I-I'd lost everything.
I had nothing left to lose.
We need a reason this time.
Why?
To explain it.
Who are we explaining it to?
I've paid his back taxes.
I'll do it again.
and when he doesn't pay me back.
the land is mine.
Let me show you something.
This is a county map
of Montana and Wyoming.
It highlights every
privately-owned parcel of land.
Look here. at the border.
Right there. they've recorded
a county with no township.
no private land.
All of this is still owned
by the government.
It's a county
with a population of zero.
So?
So...
there are no
12 jurors of your peers.
There is no judge.
there is no sheriff.
which is to say...
there is no crime.
I don't care
where you kill them.
you dump them here.
♪ dark music ♪
***
Well. I need
to see this place for myself.
- Can I take this map?
- Be my guest.
Yes. my dear?
I need to show you something.
What did I tell you?
I meant to untie it. but
I was right there. you know?
I've created a monster
with this one.
When you go to the border.
Banner...
would you be so kind
as to take this with you?
What. and just leave her there?
Consider it practice.
Can I have that blanket?
I rather like that one.
What a shame.
I'm sorry.
You'll just have to go to town
and find us another one.
won't you?
In the meantime.
you do a bad thing.
and you get punished.
Go to the bed.
Let me show you
the right way to do it.
♪ sinister music ♪
***
♪ soaring music ♪
How many'd you dig out
of the bottom?
Uh. eighty-three.
You count 'em?
How many is a good thing
to know.
Yeah. well. be hard
to be in the cattle business
if you didn't.
Let's move 'em. boys!
***
What now?
Now we eat.
Chuck wagon's
at the fairgrounds!
What is this place?
Have rodeos here.
Ain't never seen a rodeo?
What's a rodeo?
It's kind of everything
we just did.
With an audience
and prize money.
***
♪ mysterious music ♪
♪ haunting music ♪
***
Feel that steel
to your neck there. hunter?
I don't care
how fast you think you are.
You ain't that fast.
Aah!
***